#ident	"@(#)README	1.8	93/03/01 SMI"	/* SVr4.0 1.4.1.1	*/
Copyright (c) 1993, by Sun Microsystems, Inc.

This file describes the general mechanism for installing and executing
initialization and termination scripts used to implement init state
changes.

/etc/init.d contains initialization and termination scripts for
changing init states.  These scripts are linked when appropriate to
files in the rc?.d directories.

File names in rc?.d directories are of the form [SK]nn<init.d filename>
where 'S' means start this job, 'K' means kill this job, and 'nn' is
the relative sequence number for killing or starting the job.  When
entering a state (init S,0,2,3,etc.) the rc[S0-6] script executes those
scripts in /etc/rc[S0-6].d that are prefixed with 'K' followed by those
scripts prefixed with 'S'.  When executing each script in one of the
/etc/rc[S0-6] directories, the /sbin/rc[S0-6] script passes a single
argument.  It passes the argument 'stop' for scripts prefixed with 'K'
and the argument 'start' for scripts prefixed with 'S'.  There is no harm
in applying the same sequence number to multiple scripts.  In this case
the order of execution is deterministic but unspecified.

Guidelines for selecting sequence numbers are provided in README files
located in the directory associated with that target state (i.e.:
/etc/rc[S0-6].d/README).

EXAMPLE:
	When changing to init state 2 (multi-user mode, network resources
	not exported), /sbin/rc2 is initiated by the init process. The
	following steps are performed by /sbin/rc2.

	1. In the directory /etc/rc2.d are files used to stop processes 
	that should not be running in state 2.  The filenames are prefixed
	with 'K'.  Each 'K'  file in the directory is executed (by /sbin/rc2)
	in alpha-numeric order when the system enters init state 2.  (see
	example under next item).

	2. Also in the rc2.d directory are files used to start processes
	that should be running in state 2.  As in the step above, each 'S'
	file is executed.

	Example:

		Assume the file /etc/netdaemon is a script that will
		initiate networking daemons when given the argument
		'start', and will terminate the daemons if given the
		argument 'stop'.  It is linked to /etc/rc2.d/S68netdaemon,
		and to /etc/rc0.d/K67netdaemon.  The file is executed by 
		'/etc/rc2.d/S68netdaemon start'	when init state 2 is
		entered and by '/etc/rc0.d/S67netdaemon stop' when shutting
		the system down.

NOTE:

/sbin/rc2 has references to the obsolescent 'rc.d' directory.  These
references are for compatibility with old INSTALL scripts. New INSTALL
scripts should use the init.d directory for related executables.  The
same is true for the shutdown.d directory.
