.\" @(#)elfdump.1l 1.9 97/09/29 SMI
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH elfdump 1l "Sept 7 1994"
.SH NAME
elfdump \- dump selected parts of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\".nr C 0
.\".nr D 0
.\".nr E 0
.\".nr F 0
.\".nr G 0
.\".nr H 0
.B elfdump
[
.B \-cdeihnprsvG
] [
.B \-w file
] [
.B \-N name
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\f4elfdump\f1
symbolically dumps selected parts of the specified object file(s). 
The options allow specific portions of the file to be displayed.
.sp
The \f4elfdump\f1 utility is similar in function to the dump(1)
command, which offers an older and less user-friendly interface
then \f4elfdump\f1; though dump(1) may be more appropriate for
certain uses such as in shell scripts.
.sp
For a complete description of the displayed information refer to the
appropriate \fBABI\fP manual.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-c
Dump section header information.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump the contents of the
.IR \&.dynamic
section.
.TP
.B \-e
Dump the elf header.
.TP
.B \-i
Dump the contents of the
.IR \&.interp
section.
.TP
.B \-G
Dump the contents of the
.IR \&.got
section.
.TP
.B \-h
Dump the contents of the
.IR \&.hash
section.
.TP
.B \-n
Dump the contents of the
.IR \&.note
section.
.TP
.B \-p
Dump the program headers.
.TP
.B \-r
Dump the contents of the relocation sections (i.e.,
.IR \&.rel[a]. ).
.TP
.B \-s
Dump the contents of the symbol table sections (i.e.,
.IR \&.dynsym
and/or
.IR \&.symtab ).
.TP
.B \-v
Dump the contents of the version sections (i.e.,
.IR \&.SUNW_version ).
If the \f4-s\f1 option is also used then the \f4st_other\fP entry reported for
symbols from the
.IR \&.dynsym
section will be their version index.
.TP
.B \-w file
Write the contents of a specified section to the named file.
This is useful for extracting an individual sections data
for additional processing.
.TP
.B \-N name
Qualify an option with a specific name.  For example, in a file
that contains more than one symbol table, the
.IR \&.dynsym
table can be displayed using:
.IP "" 10
.B "% elfdump\ \ -s\ \ -N\ \ .dynsym\ \ file"
.sp
.SH FILES
.TP 10
.B liblddbg.so
linker debugging library. 
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.BR dump (1),
.BR nm (1),
.BR pvs (1)
.LP
.TZ LLM
