.\" @(#)interface.1l 1.6 96/03/27 SMI
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH interface 1l "3 Oct 1995"
.SH NAME
intf_create, intf_cmp \- create and compare a shared object interface database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B intf_create
[
.BI \-d " directory"
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-v
]
.sp
.B intf_cmp
[
.mc |
.B \-apv
.mc
]
.I " new_release_dir  old_release_dir"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These interface scripts
provide for the creation and comparison of shared object interface databases.
These databases reflect the association of the shared object's global
symbols with a recorded
.I version definition
(see
.BR ld (1)
and
.BR pvs (1)
for details).
.PP
\f3intf_create\f1 traverses a workspaces
.B $ROOT
directory hierarchy looking for shared objects.  Any version definitions
within these objects is saved in one or more database files. By default
these files are created in the directory
.BI $ROOT /usr/lib/interfaces.
This default directory can be overridden with the
.B \-d
option.  Shared objects that contain no version definitions are ignored
unless the
.B \-v
option is specified, in which case a warning diagnostic is generated.
The
.B \-r
option attempts to deduce any symbol reductions that have occurred within
a file.
.PP
There are several version databases created:
.IP \(bu
Shared objects made available to the
.I compilation environment
have a suffix of
.BR .so .
Public version definitions found within these objects are
recorded as
.I file control directives
within the file
.BR $RELEASE .
This file therefore describes the public interfaces available for a
particular release.
.
.IP \(bu
Shared objects made available to the
.I runtime environment
have a suffix of
.BR .so
followed by a version number.  All version definitions found within these
objects, together with their associated symbols, are recorded 
within individual files that identify the objects name, i.e.,
.BI audit/ libc.so.1.
These files provide for the internal
audit of shared object symbolic interfaces from release to release.
.
.IP \(bu
If the
.B \-r
option is specified an attempt is made to determine the reduced symbols
within the shared object.  Reduced symbols are global symbols that have
been reduced to locals as part of creating version interface definitions.
These reductions are recorded in individual audit files suffixed with the
string
.BR -REDUCED ,
\&.i.e.,
.BI audit/ libc.so.1 -REDUCED .
.
.IP \(bu
Some runtime shared objects offer
.I standard
binary interfaces.  The standard version definitions found within these
objects are recorded as
.I file control directives
within one of the standard definition files.  Presently two binary interface
standards are recognized;
the System V Application Binary Interface, Third Edition (referred to as
.BR SYSVABI_1.3 ),
and the SPARC International, SPARC Compliance Definition,
Version 2.3 (referred to as
.BR SISCD_2.3 ).
.sp
.PP
The
.B intf_cmp
routine examines the version definitions and associated symbols from two
release databases looking for inconsistencies.  To insure symbolic
interface consistency between successive software releases, existing
version definitions and their symbol association should remain intact.
Any discrepancies between the two interface definitions are flagged as
errors.
.mc |
.PP
The
.B \-a
option displays any interface additions.
The
.B \-p
option causes private interfaces to be included in the interface comparison.
The
.B \-v
option details each interface file as it is processed.
.PP
Note that version definition inheritance has the effect of causing a
symbol to be viewed as existing in multiple definitions. This insures
that both version definitions and their inheritance relationship are
processed as part of the comparison.
.mc
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example uses
.B intf_create
within an integration workspace to generate an interface database.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B % pwd
/ws/on596-gate
.B % RELEASE=5.6 intf_create -r
.B % ls -1R $ROOT/usr/lib/interfaces
/ws/on596-gate/proto/sparc_root/usr/lib/interfaces:
5.6
SISCD_2.3
SYSVABI_1.3
audit/

/ws/on596-gate/proto/sparc_root/usr/lib/interfaces/audit:
libadm.so.1
libadm.so.1-REDUCED
libaio.so.1
libaio.so.1-REDUCED
libauth.so.1
libauth.so.1-REDUCED
libc.so.1
libc.so.1-REDUCED
\&\.\.\.\.\.\.\.
.br
.fi
.RE
.sp
.PP
The following example uses
.B intf_cmp
to compare this releases interface definition with the previous
software release.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B % intf_cmp -p $ROOT/usr/lib/interfaces  $OLD-ROOT/usr/lib/interfaces
ERROR: ON-libadm.so.1: SUNW_1.1: circf(4): has been added
ERROR: ON-libaio.so.1: SUNW_1.1: _aiocancel: has been deleted
ERROR: ON-libauth.so.1: SUNWprivate_1.1: sa_getall: has been added
ERROR: ON-libauth.so.1: SUNWprivate_1.1: free_resp: has been added
ERROR: ON-libauth.so.1: SUNWprivate_1.1: defopen: has been added
ERROR: ON-libc.so.1: SUNW_1.1: _sys_illlist(64): has been deleted
ERROR: ON-libc.so.1: SUNW_1.1: _sys_illlist(32): has been added
.fi
.RE
.sp
.PP
Note: the above comparison files were doctored in order to provide
the example, they do not indicate any real changes that have
occurred in the associated system libraries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ld (1),
.BR pvs (1).
.LP
.TZ LLM
