.\" @(#)lsd.1l 1.2 95/03/08 SMI
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lsd 1 "5 Jun 1993"
.SH NAME
lsd \- list shared object differences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsd
[
.B \-cp
]
.I "old.so new.so"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "lsd" "" "\fLlsd\fP \(em list shared object differences"
.IX "shared objects" "list differences" "" "list shared object differences \(em \fLlsd\fP"
.B lsd
compares the static binary interfaces exported by
.I old.so\^
and
.I new.so
and writes one or more reports to the standard output describing what it
has found.
For example:
.PP
.RS
.B "% lsd libc.so.1.old libc.so.1.new"
.RE
.PP
would create a report describing any incompatibilities it has detected between
two versions of the C library.
.PP
Differences noted as incompatible are:
.PP
.RS
.IP \(bu
entry points in
.I old.so
that are missing in
.IR new.so ;
.IP \(bu
a change in type of an entry point from function to an exported
data structure; and
.IP \(bu
a change in the size of an exported data structure.
.RE
.PP
.PP
``Entry points'' are those items in the name list of the objects that
are either of function or object types, as represented in their ELF
symbol table entries, and which are of global scope.  Omitted from these
are entry points that, by convention, are taken to be internal.  These
are identifiers matching the regular expression ``_[_A-Z]''.
.PP
By default, 
.B lsd
will also report any violations of the ANSI-C naming rules in either
of its arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Suppress the check for ANSI-C namespace violations.  Useful when checking
the C library.
.TP
.B \-p
Check the full, physical, binary interface\(emdo not suppress comparisons
for names believed to be internal.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nm (1),
.BR dump (1),
