.\" @(#)symbindrep.man 1.1 96/11/20 SMI;
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.if n .tr \--
.TH symbindrep 1 "18 Nov 1996"
.SH NAME
symbindrep \- report on all symbol bindings required to load this object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B symbindrep
[
.B -f
.I bindfromlist
] [
.B -t
.I bindtolist
] [
.B -l
.I symbindreplib
] 
.I funcname
executable
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWosdem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B symbindrep
is a simple example of a
.I Link-Auditing
library which reports on the symbol bindings performed by
the run-time linker (ld.so.1) when loading an object.
.B symbindrep
will display all of the symbol bindings that occur
between the executable and all of it's dependencies.  After all symbol
bindings have been performed
.B symbindrep 
will terminate.  No code from the executable is ever executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-f " bindfromlist"
A colon seperated list of libraries that are to be traced.  Only symbol
bindings from these libraries will be traced.  The default is
to report on all symbol bindings.
.BI \-t " bindtolib"
A colon seperated list of libraries that are to be traced.  Only symbol
bindings to these libraries will be reported.  The default is to trace
all libraries.
.BI \-l " symbindrep"
specify an alternate symbindrep.so 
.I Link-Auditing
library to use.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example reports on only the symbol bindings between nm and
libelf.so.1.
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
% symbindrep -t /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 -f nm nm
                    Symbol Bindings

Referencing          Defining
Object               Object               Symbol
------------------------------------------------------------------
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_version
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_begin
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_errmsg
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_kind
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_end
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf32_getehdr
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_getscn
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf32_getshdr
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_getdata
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_nextscn
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_getarhdr
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_next
nm                   /usr/lib/libelf.so.1 elf_strptr
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ld.so.1 (1)
.br
.TZ LLM
